docs: add introduction and new AsyncAPI document (#812)
asyncapi/generator: docs/asyncapi-file.md

---
title: "AsyncAPI File"
weight: 20
---

> ### What is the Asyncapi File?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### What is the AsyncAPI file?
```

Reviewer: Heads up that in our Docs, we use sentence capitalization in our `Headers`! 😀👍🏽

The **AsyncAPI file** defines a standard, protocol-agnostic interface that describes message-based or event-driven APIs. The AsyncAPI file allows people or machines communicating with one another, to understand the capabilities of an event-driven API without requiring access to the source code, documentation, or inspecting the network traffic.

> The file allows you to define the structure and format of your API, including the channels the end user can subscribe to and the format of the messages they will be receiving. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file allows you to define your API structures and formats, including channels the end user can subscribe to and the message formats they receive. 
```

> The files describing the message-driven API under the AsyncAPI Specification are represented as JSON objects and conform to the JSON standards. YAML, a superset of JSON, can also be used to represent an A2S (AsyncAPI Specification) file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The files describing the message-driven API under the AsyncAPI Specification are represented as JSON objects and conform to JSON standards. YAML, a superset of JSON, can also be used to represent an A2S (AsyncAPI Specification) file.
```

> > If you want to learn how to create an AsyncAPI file or refresh your knowledge about the syntax and structure of the AsyncAPI file, check out our official [documentation](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/reference/specification/latest).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you want to learn how to create an AsyncAPI file or refresh your knowledge about the syntax and structure of the AsyncAPI file, check out our [latest specification documentation](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/reference/specification/latest).
```

In the following sections, you'll learn about the inner working of the generator, what happens once the specification file is fed to the generator, and how you can use the content of the specification file with either an AsyncAPI document or AsyncAPI string in your template.

> ### The Generation Process

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### The generation process
```

1. The **Generator** receives the **AsyncAPI file** as an input. 

> 2. The Generator then sends to the **[Parser](parser.md)** the stringified version of the original specification file in order to validate the JSON/YAML **AsyncAPI file**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The Generator sends to the **[Parser](parser.md)** a stringified version of the original specification file to validate the JSON/YAML **AsyncAPI file**.
```

3. The **parser** validates the **AsyncAPI file** using either the OpenAPI, RAML, or Avro schemas defined in the specification files. 
4. If the **parser** determines that the **AsyncAPI file** is valid, it manipulates the original JSON/YAML specification file into functions and properties, bundling them together into an **asyncapi**(asyncapiDocument). 

> 5. At this point, the **Generator** passes the **originalAsyncAPI** and the the **asyncapi** which make up part of the **[template context](asyncapi-context.md)** to the **render engine**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. At this point, the **Generator** passes the **originalAsyncAPI** and the **asyncapi** which make up part of the **[template context](asyncapi-context.md)** to the **render engine**. 
```

   
``` mermaid
graph LR
    A[Template Context]
    B{Generator}
    C[Parser]
    D[Render Engine]
    E[AsyncAPI File] --> B
  subgraph Generator
    B -->| asyncapiString | C
    C --> | asyncapi -> AsyncAPIDocument type | A
    B--> | originalAsyncAPI -> Stringified document | A
    A --> D
  end
  ```
The AsyncAPI file's content is accessible to you while writing your template in two distinct ways:
1. The `originalAsyncAPI`, which is a stringified version of the AsyncAPI file provided as input, without any modifications.
2. The `asyncapi` (`AsyncAPIDocument`) which is an object with a set of functions and properties, that comes as a result of the AsyncAPI Parser manipulating the `originalAyncAPI` .The `asyncapi` methods and parameters make it easier to access contents of AsyncAPI file in your templates.

> Check out the structure of the [AsyncAPIDocument](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js/blob/master/API.md#module_@asyncapi/parser+AsyncAPIDocument)

In the following sections, you will learn how to use either the **originalAsyncAPI** or the **asyncapi** in your template.

> #### Method 1: `originalAsyncAPI` and Template 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Method 1: `originalAsyncAPI` and template 
```

> One way of using the contents of AsyncAPI file inside your template files is by using its stringified version that reflects exactly the same contents as the AsyncAPI file provided as an input to the AsyncAPI Generator CLI. You can access this stringified AsyncAPI file directly in your templates using the `originalAsyncAPI` variable. You also have access to it in [hooks](hooks.md) functionality because `originalAsyncAPI` is also a part of the Generator instance that is passed to hooks so that you can access it usimg `generator.originalAsyncAPI`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One way of using the contents of AsyncAPI file inside your template files is by using its stringified version that reflects exactly the same contents as the AsyncAPI file provided as an input to the AsyncAPI Generator CLI. You can access this stringified AsyncAPI file directly in your templates using the `originalAsyncAPI` variable. You also access it via the [hooks `generator.originalAsyncAPI`](hooks.md) functionality because `originalAsyncAPI` is also a part of the Generator instance that is passed to hooks.
```

```

> //example usecase for using stringified AsyncAPI file inside template hooks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
//example use case for using a stringified AsyncAPI file inside template hooks
```

const fs = require('fs');
const path = require('path');

function createAsyncapiFile(generator) {
  const asyncapi = generator.originalAsyncAPI;
  let extension;
  
  try {
    JSON.parse(asyncapi);
    extension = 'json';
  } catch (e) {
    extension = 'yaml';
  }

  const outputFileName = `asyncapi.${extension}`;

  const asyncapiOutputLocation = path.resolve('./'', outputFileName);

  fs.writeFileSync(asyncapiOutputLocation, asyncapi);
```

The Generator generates templates using the `generator.generateFromString` instance method, as shown in the sample code snippet below:

```
generator
  .generateFromString(asyncapiString)
  .then(() => {
    console.log('Done!');
  })
  .catch(console.error);
  ```

> #### Method 2: `asyncapi` and Template

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Method 2: `asyncAPI` and template
```

A major advantage of using `asyncapi` (which is an instance of `AsyncAPIDocument`) is that it enables the developer to easily access the specification files' content by simply invoking a function. 

Once the specification YAML or JSON file is passed as an input to the Generator, it is passed on to the [Parser](parser.md) library, which then manipulates the asyncAPI file to a more structured document called the `AsyncAPIDocument`. Once the parser returns the document to the generator, the generator passes it to the render engine. The render engine makes the `AsyncAPIDocument` object accessible to your template through the `asyncapi` variable.

For example, if you want to extract the version of your API from AsyncAPI document, you can do that by calling `asyncapi.version()`. You can say that this one is easy to access from JSON objects, but there are more complex scenarios. For example, to get access to all messages from all channels, you can call `asyncapi.allMessages()` instead of iterating through a complex JSON object on your own.

> In the sample code snippet below, notice how you can access contents of AsyncAPI file in your template:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the sample code snippet below, notice how you can access the contents of the AsyncAPI file in your template:
```

```
  const apiName = asyncapi.info().title();
  const channels = asyncapi.channels();
```
> :memo: **Note:**  

> > To learn about the various instances you can use to access the documents' content, look at the API of AsyncAPI JavaScript Parser and the structure of [AsyncAPIDocument](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js/blob/master/API.md#module_@asyncapi/parser+AsyncAPIDocument) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> To learn about the various instances you can use to access the documents' content, look at the API of the AsyncAPI JavaScript Parser and the structure of [AsyncAPIDocument](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js/blob/master/API.md#module_@asyncapi/parser+AsyncAPIDocument) 
```

---

> title: "AsyncAPI document"

Reviewer: Shouldn't we rename this file to "`asyncapi-document.md`"? 🤔  @Florence-Njeri

Reviewer: ⬆️  this is the last change I think we need.

@derberg is this ready to be approved/merged by you or..? :O

---
title: "AsyncAPI File"
weight: 40
---

## What is the AsyncAPI file?

> The **AsyncAPI file** defines a standard, protocol-agnostic interface that describes message-based or event-driven APIs. The AsyncAPI file allows people or machines communicating with one another, to understand the capabilities of an event-driven API without requiring access to the source code, documentation, or inspecting the network traffic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **AsyncAPI document** defines a standard, protocol-agnostic interface that describes message-based or event-driven APIs. The AsyncAPI document allows people or machines communicating with one another, to understand the capabilities of an event-driven API without requiring access to the source code, documentation, or inspecting the network traffic.
```

> This file allows you to define your API structures and formats, including channels the end user can subscribe to and the message formats they receive. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This document allows you to define your API structures and formats, including channels the end user can subscribe to and the message formats they receive. 
```

The files describing the message-driven API under the AsyncAPI Specification are represented as JSON objects and conform to JSON standards. YAML, a superset of JSON, can also be used to represent an A2S (AsyncAPI Specification) file.

> > - To learn how to create an AsyncAPI file or refresh your knowledge about the syntax and structure of the AsyncAPI file, check out our [latest specification documentation](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/reference/specification/latest). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> - To learn how to create an AsyncAPI document or refresh your knowledge about the syntax and structure of the AsyncAPI document, check out our [latest specification documentation](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/reference/specification/latest). 
```

> - You can develop, validate, convert the AsyncAPI file to the latest version or preview your AsyncAPI file in a more readable way using the [AsyncAPI Studio](https://studio.asyncapi.com/).

> In the following sections, you'll learn about the inner working of the generator, what happens once the specification file is fed to the generator, and how you can use the content of the specification file with either an AsyncAPI document or AsyncAPI string in your template.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following sections, you'll learn about the inner working of the generator, what happens once the AsyncAPI document is fed to the generator, and how you can access the content of the document.
```

maybe let's not mention document and string at this point

> ## The generation process

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## The generation process related to AsyncAPI document
```

I think we need to make it clear in the header that it is not full process

> 1. The **Generator** receives the **AsyncAPI file** as an input. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The **Generator** receives the **AsyncAPI document** as an input. 
```

> 2. The Generator sends to the **[Parser](parser.md)** a stringified version of the original specification file to validate the JSON/YAML **AsyncAPI file**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. The Generator sends to the **[Parser](parser.md)** a stringified version of the original **AsyncAPI document** to validate and parse it.
```

> 3. The **parser** validates the **AsyncAPI file** using either the OpenAPI, RAML, or Avro schemas defined in the specification files. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. The **Parser** validates the **AsyncAPI document** using additional schema-related plugins, either the OpenAPI schema, RAML data types, or Avro schema. 
```

> 4. If the **parser** determines that the **AsyncAPI file** is valid, it manipulates the original JSON/YAML specification file into functions and properties, bundling them together into an **asyncapi**(asyncapiDocument). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. If the **Parser** determines that the **AsyncAPI document** is valid, it manipulates the original JSON/YAML and provides a set of helper functions in return, bundling them together into an **asyncapi** variable that is an instance of [**AsyncAPIDocument**](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js/blob/master/API.md#module_@asyncapi/parser+AsyncAPIDocument). 
```

this is a first time we mention AsyncAPIDocument, so we should link here imho

> 5. At this point, the **Generator** passes the **originalAsyncAPI** and the **asyncapi** which make up part of the **[template context](asyncapi-context.md)** to the **render engine**. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. At this point, the **Generator** passes the **originalAsyncAPI** and the **asyncapi** which make up part of the **[Template Context](asyncapi-context.md)** to the **Render Engine**. 
```

> 6. The **template context** is accessible to the template files that are passed to either the [react](react-render-engine.md) or [nunjucks](nunjucks-render-engine.md) **render engines** by the **Generator**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. The **Template Context** is accessible to the template files that are passed to either the [react](react-render-engine.md) or [nunjucks](nunjucks-render-engine.md) **Render Engines**.
```

   
``` mermaid
graph LR
    A[Template Context]
    B{Generator}
    C[Parser]
    D[Render Engine]

>     E[AsyncAPI File] --> B

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    E[AsyncAPI Document] --> B
```

  subgraph Generator
    B -->| asyncapiString | C
    C --> | asyncapi -> AsyncAPIDocument type | A
    B--> | originalAsyncAPI -> Stringified document | A
    A --> D
  end
  ```

> The AsyncAPI file's content is accessible to you while writing your template in two distinct ways:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The AsyncAPI document's content is accessible to you while writing your template in two distinct ways:
```

> 1. The `originalAsyncAPI`, which is a stringified version of the AsyncAPI file provided as input, without any modifications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The `originalAsyncAPI`, which is a stringified version of the AsyncAPI document provided as input, without any modifications.
```

IMHO it should not be a numbered list as order do not matter

> 2. The `asyncapi` (`AsyncAPIDocument`) which is an object with a set of functions and properties, that comes as a result of the AsyncAPI Parser manipulating the `originalAyncAPI` .The `asyncapi` methods and parameters make it easier to access contents of AsyncAPI file in your templates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. The `asyncapi` (`AsyncAPIDocument`) which is an object with a set of helper functions, that comes as a result of the `Parser` manipulating the `originalAyncAPI` .The `asyncapi` functions make it easier to access the contents of AsyncAPI documents in your templates.
```

> Check out the structure of the [AsyncAPIDocument](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js/blob/master/API.md#module_@asyncapi/parser+AsyncAPIDocument)

In the following sections, you will learn how to use either the **originalAsyncAPI** or the **asyncapi** in your template.

### Method 1: `originalAsyncAPI` and template 

> One way of using the contents of AsyncAPI file inside your template files is by using its stringified version that reflects exactly the same contents as the AsyncAPI file provided as an input to the AsyncAPI Generator CLI. You can access this stringified AsyncAPI file directly in your templates using the `originalAsyncAPI` variable. You also access it via the [hooks](hooks.md) `generator.originalAsyncAPI` functionality because `originalAsyncAPI` is also a part of the Generator instance that is passed to hooks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One way of using the contents of AsyncAPI document inside your template files is by using its stringified version that reflects exactly the same contents as the AsyncAPI document provided as an input to the Generator. You can access it directly in your templates using the `originalAsyncAPI` variable. You also access it via the [hooks](hooks.md) `generator.originalAsyncAPI` because `originalAsyncAPI` is also a part of the Generator instance that is passed to hooks.
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```js
```

//example use case for using a stringified AsyncAPI file inside template hooks

const fs = require('fs');
const path = require('path');

function createAsyncapiFile(generator) {
  const asyncapi = generator.originalAsyncAPI;
  let extension;
  
  try {
    JSON.parse(asyncapi);
    extension = 'json';
  } catch (e) {
    extension = 'yaml';
  }

  const outputFileName = `asyncapi.${extension}`;

  const asyncapiOutputLocation = path.resolve('./'', outputFileName);

  fs.writeFileSync(asyncapiOutputLocation, asyncapi);
```

> The Generator generates templates using the `generator.generateFromString` instance method, as shown in the sample code snippet below:
> 
> ```
> generator.generateFromString(asyncapiString).then(() => {
>     console.log('Done!');
>   })
>   .catch(console.error);
>   ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

I do not think it is interesting for template developer how to use generator to generate from string. It is not related to this section

### Method 2: `asyncapi` and template

> A major advantage of using `asyncapi` (which is an instance of `AsyncAPIDocument`) is that it enables the developer to easily access the specification files' content by simply invoking a function. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A major advantage of using `asyncapi` (which is an instance of `AsyncAPIDocument`) is that it enables the developer to easily access the AsyncAPI documents' content by simply invoking a function. 
```

> Once the specification YAML or JSON file is passed as an input to the Generator, it is passed on to the [Parser](parser.md) library, which then manipulates the asyncAPI file to a more structured document called the `AsyncAPIDocument`. Once the parser returns the document to the generator, the generator passes it to the render engine. The render engine makes the `AsyncAPIDocument` object accessible to your template through the `asyncapi` variable.

Reviewer 2: I have a feeling this sentence only repeats what was written in sections before, 

sometimes less is better 😉

For example, if you want to extract the version of your API from AsyncAPI document, you can do that by calling `asyncapi.version()`. You can say that this one is easy to access from JSON objects, but there are more complex scenarios. For example, to get access to all messages from all channels, you can call `asyncapi.allMessages()` instead of iterating through a complex JSON object on your own.

> In the sample code snippet below, notice how you can access the contents of the AsyncAPI file in your template:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the sample code snippet below, notice how you can access the contents of the AsyncAPI document in your template using `asyncapi` variable from the context:
```

weight: 20
---

### What is the Asyncapi Specification?

> The **AsyncAPI specification** defines a standard, protocol-agnostic interface that describes message-based or event-driven APIs. The AsyncAPI specification allows people or machines communicating with one another, to understand the capabilities of an event-driven APIs without requiring access to the source code, documentation, or inspecting the network traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **AsyncAPI specification** defines a standard, protocol-agnostic interface that describes message-based or event-driven APIs. The AsyncAPI specification allows people or machines communicating with one another, to understand the capabilities of an event-driven API without requiring access to the source code, documentation, or inspecting the network traffic.
```

> The specification allows you to define the structure and format of your API including the channels the end user can subscribe to and the format of the messages they will be receiving.
> 
> The files describing the message-driven API in accordance with the AsyncAPI Specification are represented as JSON objects and conform to the JSON standards. YAML, being a superset of JSON, can be used as well to represent a A2S (AsyncAPI Specification) file.
> 
> The specification file when fed as an input to the generator library via the asyncAPI CLI command, shown in the code snippet below, will generate API documentation or generate message-based API boilerplate code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The specification allows you to define the structure and format of your API, including the channels the end user can subscribe to and the format of the messages they will be receiving. 

The files describing the message-driven API under the AsyncAPI Specification are represented as JSON objects and conform to the JSON standards. YAML, a superset of JSON, can also be used to represent an A2S (AsyncAPI Specification) file. The specification file, when fed as an input to the generator library via the asyncAPI CLI command, shown in the code snippet below, will generate API documentation or generate message-based API boilerplate code.
```

```bash
ag asyncapi.yaml ~/my-template
```

> 1. **ag** is the asyncAPI generator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **ag** is the AsyncAPI generator
```

2. **asyncapi.yaml** is the specification file
3. **~/my-template** is the template you are using

> :bulb: **Note:** 

> If you haven't set up the asyncapi CLI tool, please refer to our [installation guide](installation.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you haven't set up the AsyncAPI CLI tool, please refer to our [AsyncAPI CLI installation guide](installation.md)
```

### Use cases of the API definition file
- Interactive and clear API documentation.
- Generation of message-based APIs boilerplate code.
- Validation of messages the client receives using the JSON schema that defines validation rules for your objects in the spec file. 
- Application of API management policies to messages before they arrive to the broker.

> :bulb: **Remember:** 

> If you are looking to learn how to create an asyncapi specification file or you need to refresh your knowledge about the syntax and structure of the AsyncAPI Specification file, check out our official [documentation](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/reference/specification/v2.4.0).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to learn how to create an asyncAPI specification file or refresh your knowledge about the syntax and structure of the AsyncAPI Specification file, check out our official [documentation](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/reference/specification/v2.4.0).
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you want to learn how to create an AsyncAPI specification file or refresh your knowledge about the syntax and structure of the AsyncAPI Specification file, check out our official [documentation](https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/reference/specification/latest).
```

> In this documentation you'll learn about the inner working of the generator and what happens once the specification file is fed to the generator and how you can use the content of specification file using the asyncAPI document or asyncAPI string in your template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following sections, you'll learn about the inner working of the generator, what happens once the specification file is fed to the generator, and how you can use the content of the specification file with either an asyncAPI document or asyncAPI string in your template.
```

### The generation process

> The generator library receives the template and AsyncAPI specification file as inputs. To validate that the json/yaml specification file is valid, the generator passes the stringified version of the original specification document to the [parser](parser.md). The parser validates the asyncapi specification using either the openapi schema, raml schema or the avro schema defined in the spec files. If valid, the parser then manipulates the original JSON or YML specification file into functions and properties and bundles them together into an **asyncapiDocument**. The generator library then passes the originalapiString, the asyncapiDocument, and the extra parameters provided by the user to the renderer engine. The renderer engine renders a template where the originalapiString, the asyncapiDocument and the extra parameters are made accessible to the template developer so they access functions that extract some data from the asyncapi file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generator library receives the template and AsyncAPI specification file as inputs. To validate the json/yaml specification file, the generator passes the stringified version of the original specification document to the [parser](parser.md). The parser validates the AsyncAPI specification using either the OpenAPI, RAML, or Avro schema defined in the spec files. If valid, the parser then manipulates the original JSON or YML specification file into functions and properties, bundling them together into an **asyncapiDocument**. At this point, the generator library passes the original apiString, the asyncapiDocument, and the extra parameters provided by the user to the rendering engine. The rendering engine renders a template where the original apiString, the asyncapiDocument, and the extra parameters are made accessible to the template developer. Hence, they can access functions that extract data from the AsyncAPI file.
```

> 

Reviewer: We discussed in our GSoD sync call today how this section is a great introduction to your diagram below. Pratik asked if this diagram was too complicated for a beginner, and I offered some ideas in response:
- Since you have separate sections covering how to use templates vs AsyncAPI documents, one option is to divide the diagram into 2 separate diagrams, one for each method.
- In your overall Generator Docs outline you'll be working on for GSoD, you'll eventually have other PRs open to write other sections such as hooks, parsers, etc. You could also tiny mini-diagrams to each one of those sub-sections to illustrate each piece if you like! For example, you could create a diagram that shows what hooks do within the Generator, another for parsers, and so on. 
- This "Generator Process" section covers most of the info displayed in your diagram, except for the Rendering process. I would add another tiny section and header for `The Rendering Process` right underneath.

> The illustration below clearly depicts the whole process from when you pass the template and your specification file as arguments to the asyncapi CLI tool, to how the generator library uses the input to generate the output you need.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The diagram below depicts the entire process of passing the template and specification file as arguments to the AsyncAPI CLI tool, and how the generator library then uses these inputs to generate the output you need.
```

``` mermaid
graph LR

>     E[ AsyncApi Document ] --> B{Generator}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    E[ AsyncAPI Document ] --> B{Generator}
```

> ``` mermaid
> graph LR
>     E[ AsyncApi Document ] --> B{Generator}
>     F[ Template ] --> B{Generator}
>   subgraph Generator Library
>     B -->| asyncapiString| C[Parser]
>     C[Parser] --> |asyncapi| D(Render Engine)
>     B{Generator}--> | originalAsyncAPI | D(Render Engine)
>     B{Generator}--> | params | D(Render Engine)
>   end
>   D(Render Engine) --> O(HTML)
>   D(Render Engine) --> M(Markdown)
>   D(Render Engine) --> N(Node.js)
>   D(Render Engine) --> J(Java Spring Boot)
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``` mermaid
graph LR
    E[ AsyncAPI Document ] --> B{Generator}
    F[ Template ] --> B{Generator}
  subgraph Generator Library
    B -->| asyncapiString| C[Parser]
    C[Parser] --> |AsyncAPI| D(Render Engine)
    B{Generator}--> | originalAsyncAPI | D(Render Engine)
    B{Generator}--> | params | D(Render Engine)
  end
  D(Render Engine) --> O(HTML)
  D(Render Engine) --> M(Markdown)
  D(Render Engine) --> N(Node.js)
  D(Render Engine) --> J(Java Spring Boot)
```
```

> :bulb: **Remember**
> 

> > When you are writing your template, you get access to the specification file in two different forms; the originalAsyncApi which is a stringified version of the specification `.yml` file and the second is the asyncapiDocument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> When you are writing your template, you get access to the specification file in two different forms; the originalAsyncAPI which is a stringified version of the specification `.yml` file, and the asyncapiDocument.
```

> :memo: **Note:** 

> > You can check out the structure of the asyncapiDocument [here](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js/blob/master/API.md#module_@asyncapi/parser+AsyncAPIDocument)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Check out the [asyncapiDocument structure](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js/blob/master/API.md#module_@asyncapi/parser+AsyncAPIDocument)
```

> In the section below, you will learn how to use either the **asyncapiString** or the **asyncapiDocument** in your template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following sections, you will learn how to use either the **asyncapiString** or the **asyncapiDocument** in your template.

```

> #### Method 1: asyncapiString + template ##

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Method 1: asyncapiString + template 
```

what are the hashtags there for? I think another placeholder is needed :)

> The first way to generate an message-based API template using the generator tool is by using the asyncapiString. The asynapiString is a stringified version of the specification YAML or JSON file you pass as a parameter to the CLI `ag` command. During the generation process, the generator library calls `generator.originalAsyncAPI` which returns a stringified version of the original spec file. This stringified version is what the generator library passes to the renderer engine and the renderer engine makes it accessible in your output alias the template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first way to generate a message-based API template using the generator tool is by using the asyncapiString. The asynapiString is a stringified version of the specification YAML or JSON file you pass as a parameter to the CLI `ag` command. During the generation process, the generator library calls `generator.originalAsyncAPI`, which returns a stringified version of the original spec file. This stringified version is what the generator library passes to the renderer engine, and the renderer engine makes it accessible in your output alias the template.
```

**An example of an asyncapiString:**
```
const asyncapiString = `
asyncapi: 2.4.0
info:
  title: Example to show stringified specification file
  version: 1.0.0
...
`;

```

> The generator library generates templates using the `generator.generateFromString` instance method as shown in the code snippet below

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generator library generates templates using the `generator.generateFromString` instance method, as shown in the sample code snippet below:
```

```
generator
  .generateFromString(asyncapiString)
  .then(() => {
    console.log('Done!');
  })
  .catch(console.error);
  ```

> #### Method 2: asyncapiDocument+ template ##

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Method 2: asyncapiDocument + template
```

> Once the specification YAML or JSON file is passed as an input to the generator library, it is passed on to the [Parser](parser.md) library which then manipulates the file to a more structured document called the asyncapiDocument. Once the parser returns the document to the generator, the generator passes it to the renderer engine. The renderer engine will make the asyncapiDocument accessible from your output alias the template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the specification YAML or JSON file is passed as an input to the generator library, it is passed on to the [Parser](parser.md) library, which then manipulates the file to a more structured document called the asyncapiDocument. Once the parser returns the document to the generator, the generator passes it to the render engine. The render engine makes the asyncapiDocument accessible from your output alias, the template.
```

> From the template, you can access the document's content, for example, to extract the version of the spec file used for your Readme, you can do that by running `asyncapiDocument.version()` or to get the message payload you use `asyncapiDocument.allMessages()` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the template, you can access the document's content. For example, if you wished to extract the spec file version used in your ReadME, you can do that by running `asyncapiDocument.version()`.  Or to get the message payload, you can use the `asyncapiDocument.allMessages()` method.
```

> In the code snippet below, you'll see how you can access document contents of the asyncapiDocument in your template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the sample code snippet below, notice how you can access document contents of the asyncapiDocument in your template:
```

```
  const apiName = asyncapi.info().title();
  const channels = asyncapi.channels();
...
```
> :memo: **Note:**  

> > To learn about the various instances you can use to access the documents' content, please check [this file](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js/blob/master/API.md#module_@asyncapi/parser+AsyncAPIDocument) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> To learn about the various instances you can use to access the documents' content, read these [AsyncAPIDocument and parser files](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js/blob/master/API.md#module_@asyncapi/parser+AsyncAPIDocument) 
```

> ## Advantage of using the asyncApiDocument instead of the asyncapiString in your template

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Honestly, this doesn't seem to merit a section. I would delete this header and move the below sentence to the beginning of the `#### Method 2: asyncapiDocument+ template` section.

Author: I agree ☝️

> The asyncApiDocument simplifies the structure of the spec file which is complex and nested enabling the developer to easily access the specification files content by simply invoking a function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The asyncApiDocument simplifies the structure of the more complex spec file, enabling the developer to easily access the specification files' content by simply invoking a function.
```

> The asyncApiDocument simplifies the structure of the spec file which is complex and nested enabling the developer to easily access the specification files content by simply invoking a function

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
moving to the beginning of the last section

6. The generator passes the **template context** to either the [react](react-render-engine.md) or [nunjucks](nunjucks-render-engine.md)render engine therefore making it accessible in the templates.
   
``` mermaid
graph LR
    A[Template Context]
    B{Generator}
    C[Parser]
    D[Render Engine]
    E[AsyncAPI File] --> B
  subgraph Generator Library
    B -->| asyncapiString | C
    C --> | asyncapi -> AsyncAPIDocument type | A
    B--> | originalAsyncAPI -> Stringified document | A
    A --> D
  end
  ```

> :bulb: **Remember**
> 
> When you are writing your template, you get access to the specification file in two different forms; the originalAsyncAPI which is a stringified version of the specification `.yml` file, and the asyncapiDocument.

> :memo: **Note:** 
> Check out the [asyncapiDocument structure](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js/blob/master/API.md#module_@asyncapi/parser+AsyncAPIDocument)

In the following sections, you will learn how to use either the **asyncapiString** or the **asyncapiDocument** in your template.

#### Method 1: asyncapiString + template 

> The first way to generate a message-based API template using the generator tool is by using the asyncapiString. The asynapiString is a stringified version of the specification YAML or JSON file you pass as a parameter to the CLI `ag` command. During the generation process, the generator library calls `generator.originalAsyncAPI`, which returns a stringified version of the original spec file. This stringified version is what the generator library passes to the render engine, and the render engine makes it accessible in your output alias the template.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One way of using the contents of AsyncAPI file inside your template files is by using its stringified version that reflects exactly the same contents as the file provided as an input. You can access this stringified AsyncAPI file directly in your templates through `originalAsyncAPI` variable. You also have access to it in hooks functionality because `originalAsyncAPI` is also a part of the Generator instance that is passed to hooks so that you can access it like `generator.originalAsyncAPI`.
```

Author: **Note to self** Link hooks.md here

> **An example of an asyncapiString:**

Reviewer 2: these are examples of asyncapi passed to generator as string, which is valid example, but my assumption is that intention of this document is to describe how you can use AsyncAPI files inside templates, and not how you can pass AsyncAPI files to generator

better example would be an example on how to access stringified asyncapi file in hooks:
```js
//example usecase for using stringified AsyncAPI file inside template hooks

const fs = require('fs');
const path = require('path');

function createAsyncapiFile(generator) {
  const asyncapi = generator.originalAsyncAPI;
  let extension;
  
  try {
    JSON.parse(asyncapi);
    extension = 'json';
  } catch (e) {
    extension = 'yaml';
  }

  const outputFileName = `asyncapi.${extension}`;

  const asyncapiOutputLocation = path.resolve('./'', outputFileName);

  fs.writeFileSync(asyncapiOutputLocation, asyncapi);
```

```
const asyncapiString = `
asyncapi: 2.4.0
info:
  title: Example to show stringified specification file
  version: 1.0.0
  `
...```

The generator library generates templates using the `generator.generateFromString` instance method, as shown in the sample code snippet below:

```
generator
  .generateFromString(asyncapiString)
  .then(() => {
    console.log('Done!');
  })
  .catch(console.error);
  ```

> #### Method 2: asyncapiDocument + template

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Method 2: `asyncapi` and Template
```

> A major advantage of using the asyncApiDocument is that it simplifies the structure of the more complex spec file, enabling the developer to easily access the specification files' content by simply invoking a function. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A major advantage of using `asyncapi` (which is an instance of `AsyncAPIDocument`) is that it enables the developer to easily access the specification files' content by simply invoking a function. 
```

> Once the specification YAML or JSON file is passed as an input to the generator library, it is passed on to the [Parser](parser.md) library, which then manipulates the file to a more structured document called the asyncapiDocument. Once the parser returns the document to the generator, the generator passes it to the render engine. The render engine makes the asyncapiDocument accessible from your output alias, the template.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the specification YAML or JSON file is passed as an input to the generator library, it is passed on to the [Parser](parser.md) library, which then manipulates the file to a more structured document called the `AsyncAPIDocument`. Once the parser returns the document to the generator, the generator passes it to the render engine. The render engine makes the `AsyncAPIDocument` object accessible from your template through `asyncapi` variable.
```

> From the template, you can access the document's content. For example, if you wished to extract the spec file version used in your ReadME, you can do that by running `asyncapiDocument.version()`. Or, to get the message payload, you can use the `asyncapiDocument.allMessages()` method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if you want to extract the version of your API from AsyncAPI document, you can do that by calling `asyncapi.version()`. You can say that this one is easy to access from JSON objects, but there are more complex scenarios. For example, to get access to all messages from all channels, you can call `asyncapi.allMessages()` instead of iterating through a complex JSON object on your own.
```

> In the sample code snippet below, notice how you can access document contents of the asyncapiDocument in your template:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the sample code snippet below, notice how you can access contents of AsyncAPI file in your template:
```

```
  const apiName = asyncapi.info().title();
  const channels = asyncapi.channels();

> ...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```
> :memo: **Note:**  

> > To learn about the various instances you can use to access the documents' content, read these [AsyncAPIDocument and parser files](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js/blob/master/API.md#module_@asyncapi/parser+AsyncAPIDocument) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> To learn about the various instances you can use to access the documents' content, look at the API of AsyncAPI JavaScript Parser and the structure of [AsyncAPIDocument](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js/blob/master/API.md#module_@asyncapi/parser+AsyncAPIDocument) 
```
